UNPUBLISHED 
 
UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE FOURTH CIRCUIT 
  
No. 17-4595 
  
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
, 
 
      Plaintiff - Appellee, 
 
    v. 
 
EDWIN LEO BROWN, 
 
      Defendant - Appellant. 
 
  
Appeal from the United States District Court for the 
Eastern District of North Carolina, at 
Wilmington.  James C. Dever III, Chief District Judge.  (7:16-
cr
-00110-D-1) 
  
Submitted:  April 24, 2018 Decided:  July 3, 2018 
  
Before GREGORY, Chief Judge, and WILKINSON and FLOYD, Circuit Judges. 
  Affirmed by unpublished per curiam opinion. 
  
Robert L. Cooper, COOPER, DAVIS & COOPER, Fayetteville, North Carolina, for 
Appellant.  Robert J. Higdon, Jr., United States Attorney, Jennifer P. May-Parker, Acting 
First Assistant United States Attorney, Donald R. Pender,
 Assistant United States 
Attorney, OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES ATTORNEY, Raleigh, North Carolina, 
for Appellee.
  
Unpublished opinions are not binding precedent in this circuit. 
  
2 
 PER CURIAM: 
Edwin Leo Brown appeals 
the 210-month, upward departure sentence imposed 
following his guilty plea to four counts of possession with intent to distribute cocaine 
base, in violation of 21 U.S.C. §
 
841(a)(1), (b)(1)(C) (2012), and one count of possession 
of a firearm by a convicted felon, in violation of 18 U.S.C. §§ 922(g)(1), 924(a)(2) 
(2012).
  On appeal, Brown argues that his sentence is procedurally unreasonable because 
the district court did not adequately address his arguments for a lower sentence.  Brown 
further challenges the substantive reasonableness of his sentence, claiming that a sentence 
within the original 
Sentencing Guidelines range would have been sufficient to satisfy the 
goals of sentencing.  For the reasons that follow, we affirm. 
We review a defendant's sentence "under a deferential abuse-of-discretion 
standard."  Gall v. United States, 552 U.S. 38, 41 (2007).  Under this standard, a sentence 
is reviewed for both procedural and substantive reasonableness.  
Id.
 at 51.  In determining 
procedural reasonableness, we consider, among other things, whether the
 district court 
addressed the defendant's nonfrivolous sentencing arguments.  See United States v. Blue, 
877 F.3d 513, 518-19 (4th Cir. 2017). 
If a sentence is free of "significant procedural error," we then review
 it for 
substantive reasonableness, "tak[ing] into account the totality of the circumstances."  
Gall
, 552 U.S. at 51.  The sentence imposed must be "sufficient, but not greater than 
necessary," to satisfy the goals of sentencing.  18 U.S.C. §
 
3553(a) (2012).  "When 
reviewing a departure, we consider
 whether the sentencing court acted reasonably both 
with respect to its decision to impose such a sentence and with respect to the extent of the 
3 
 divergence from the sentencing range."  United States v. Howard, 773 F.3d 519, 529 (4th 
Cir. 2014) (internal quotation marks omitted).  While "a major departure from the 
Guidelines range should be supported by a more significant justification than a minor 
one," we owe "defer[ence] to the trial court and can reverse a sentence only if it is 
unreasonable, even if the sentence would not have been 
our choice."  United States v. 
McCoy
, 804 F.3d 349, 351 (4th Cir. 2015) (brackets and internal quotation marks 
omitted). 
O
ur review of the record confirms that the district court pro
perly considered 
Brown's arguments for a sentence within the original Guidelines range.  By cataloging 
the many favorable sentences that Brown had previously received, the court clearly 
rejected Brown's contention that his criminal history category sufficiently captured his 
extensive criminal history.  In addition, by emphasizing that, on the night of Brown's 
arrest, Brown precipitated an altercation with law enforcement that could easily have 
turned deadly, the court indisputably entertained Brown's claim that the application of 
two Guidelines enhancements adequately accounted for his egregious behavior that night.  
We thus detect no procedural error in the court's discussion of Brown's sentencing 
arguments. 
We further conclude that Brown's sentence is substantively reasonable.  In 
weighing the §
 
3553(a) factors, the
 district court reasonably relied on Brown's substantial 
criminal history, his lenient treatment by the criminal justice system, and the serious 
nature of the underlying offense conduct, which included a brutal assault on a police 
officer. 
4 
 Accordingly, we affirm the judgment of the district court.  We dispense with oral 
argument because the facts and legal contentions are adequately presented in the 
materials before this court and argument would not aid the decisional process. 
AFFIRMED 